java - independent platform
jdk, jvm, jre
complier
interpreter, JIT
class loader
runtime memory area - method area, stack, heap, PC(Program Counter) Register, Native method stacks
Execution Engine
Garbage collector
WORA - write once run anywhere

datatypes
literals
variables
type coversion - implicit,  casting - explicitly((int)a), type promotion
operators
conditional statements
ternary operator
loops

Method overloading --- same name with differnt paramaters or different type paramaters

stack, heap
array, multidimensional array, 3d array, jagged array
for each loop
Class, object
only one public class should be in one file
array of object

string
string constant pool
mutable vs immutable string
stringbuffer vs stringbuilder
encapsulation
this keyword
constructor - default vs paramaterized constructor
static(it'll common for differnt object and it can directly access via classname.variable or classname.method) - variable vs method. But we can keep the static for inner class but not on top level class.
static block
Class.forName('classname')
static block will be loaded when class loader intialized in JVM only once the static block will be executed whenever we're creating the mulitple object instance.
Anonnymous object means the instance will be created and it cant be assigned to any variable like this (new Student().getName()). It cant be used again.

Inheritance:
single, multi-level
1. but wont support multiple Inheritance like this class C extends A,B. Assume there is show method avaialbe in both classes. So C will confuse to choose which class and its so ambiguity.
2. also if the dervied class constructor is invoked at the same time it'll invoke the parent class as well.
3. In multi-level Inheritance, when we have multilevel, it will have the super method in each class, that means it'll invoke the class of parent if the parent class has been extended in child class. Then what about top parent class? the answer is that it'll have the Object class.
4. Suppose if we want to trigger the default or paramaterized constructor inside the same class, we can use this() method.

Method overriding - can have the same method with same parameters but the method should be in different class and it should inherits from the parent class.

packages - folder.* can use but it should have the class file in the current folder and also we can use folder.folder.* or folder.folder.class. If we want to make the folder classes into package, in that particular class files we need to mention the statement like package foldername.

access modifiers - public, private, protected, default

polymorphism - many + behaviours. there are two types such as compile time(method overloading) and runtime(method overriding) polyporphism.

Dynamic method dispatch

final - variable will be treated as constant variable, method can't override in derivedclass and class won't be inherit in the dervied class.

Object class - basically in the normal class if we try to access .toString() or .equals() method from the object instance, first it'll check in the current class if not there, the normal class inherits the Object class to use the methods. Thats how we can able to use the methods in hiding way.

Typecasting - changing from one type to another type explicitly. 
For eg: 
double num = 2.3;
int i = (int)num;
upcasting means that from child to parent casting the class like below and it'll done implicitly.
A a = new B();
downcasting means that from parent to child casting the class like below and it'll done explicitly.
A a = new B();

B b = (B)a;


Wrapper class:
having a class around the primtive types.
For example:
int a = 100;
Integer a2 = new Integer(a); // boxing(means put this value into the object)
Integer a2 = a; // autoboxing

int a3 = a2.intValue(); // unboxing
int a3 = a; // autounboxing

Abstract class:
An abstract class is a class declared with the abstract keyword that cannot be instantiated directly and may contain both abstract methods and concrete methods. A concrete subclass must implement all inherited abstract methods before it can be instantiated.

inner class:
basically we can use the class inside an another class but while creating an instance of inner class, first we need to take an instance for top level class then we can use the object to create an instance for the inner class.

Anonnymous inner class:
basically we can implement the method overriding via inner class during object creation. For example, if we're creating the abstract class and we want to use the class inside the direct main method and we can implement via Anonnymous inner class.

interface: we have the property and methods inside the interface and by default the public and abstract key will be implicitly come up with the interfcae for the declaration. However, you cant leave the variable without value because in interface it'll have the static and final keyword for the property or variable. Also, interface cant create the instance inside the main method and but we can define the type for the other object which is implements this interface. the keyword will be implements. interface to interface - extends. Also by using the interface we can opt the multiple Inheritance.

enums - helps to define the constant variables such as Status, statuscode

Anonations - adding an extra feature or logic over to the class, methods or variables. Lets talk about the override, basically we can tell the override Anonations for the method, it'll throw the error during compile time itself and also we can able to extend upto runtime too.

multiple interface --> normal, functional or single abstract method(SAM), Marker

functional interface will have only one method and it'll more helpful while working with the lambda expression inside the class.

lambda expression is an arrow function which can be only work with functional interface.

exception - kind of errors occured in differnt ways such as compile time error, runtime error, logical error.
error and exception are differnt type of exception. THe error cant handle because it can be throw anytime and we cant have the control to it like outofmemory, Ioerror, Virtualerror.
Under exception there are 2 types unchecked and checkedexception. In unchecked it can able to identify during the runtime only, but in the checked the compile time itself forces to handle that checked exception. 
custom expection creation using the Exception class.
throw and throws
try catch and finally

BufferedStream or Scanner are used to get the inputs from the user. when we open the bufferclass we need to close the connection once its end via finally block or try with resources which will happen automatically.

threads
thread start
thread run
runnable
lambda expression with Runnable
Thread priority
Thread sleep

Race condition
thread states - new, runnable, running, waiting, dead
             start()
   NEW ──────────────────► RUNNABLE
                              │
                              │ CPU selected
                              ▼
                          RUNNING*
                              │
               ┌──────────────┼──────────────┐
               │              │              │
           sleep()         wait()        join()/lock
               │              │              │
               ▼              ▼              ▼
          TIMED_WAITING    WAITING       BLOCKED
               │              │              │
               └──────────────┴──────────────┘
                              │
                              ▼
                           RUNNABLE
                              │
                         run() ends
                              ▼
                          TERMINATED


collection:
It helps to make the array flexible. Generally in normal array, it'll fixed. So you want to expand the array, we have to create new variable statement to copy and paste, but it doesnt make a sense. Thats why the java new version has been introduced the collection API to make the length flexible means dynamically we can able to extend the data.
collection API - collection topic
collection - interface
collections - class

list, queue, set(Collection interface)
ArrayList
HashSet
TreeSet
Generics

map(Map interface) 
HashMap
HashTable

comparable vs comparator

stream API --> stream helps to avoid affecting the original array instead it'll take a copy of that list and then we can interact with mulitple methods like map, filter, forEach etc. Stream object can be used only once.

Parallel stream -> Helps to work with independent values faster across multiple threads.
Optional -> Basically it will give you the error if the list doesnt return any value if we're using any method as Optional like findFirst or FindAny in that case we need to change the type into Optional.

Method Reference -> Basically in the stream methods when we perform only one line of statement which are class method invoking. directly we can use the Method reference by pointing to the classname like this nums.forEach(System.out::println);
constructor reference -> passing the constructor reference in the needed method callback like this nums.map(Student::new).

local variable type inference(LVTI) - When we defined any variale we will use the datatype of the variable as int, Student like this. Instead of mentioning the type here we can use var a =10; It can be easily identify or infer the type during the compile time. It has been introduced in java 10. It can be only used in local variable not an instance variable.

sealed, non-sealed and final --> basically sealed class has the ability to permit only certain subclass to extend my class.

record - by default private and final for the paramaterized constructor in record.
canonical constructor
compact canonical constructor